Also, a new computer just came on the market, the Compaq "portable". Weighing a mere 30 pounds, it can be tossed... OK, dragged, into the back of my AMC Eagle. Orion volunteers to go with me on day one. We try for the general public.

One of these connections is the manager of the RadioShack at the Sunnyvale Town Center Mall. He allows us to set up a table for the day and reel in customers by letting them try a free demo of Potemkin as we try to discover our major blind spots.

We get a group of guinea pigs far more representative then what we have access to at our office. The mall is full of a range of ages and backgrounds. Some people have canes, others really can't speak English, many have children, and a few wear $500 shoes. The universal reaction is, well, it is mediated by the wisdom of Orion. 

After a sequence of failed attempts to use the software even with guidance he says "When I see a user get frustrated with the software, I think this is the hardest time to listen and also, the time we must listen the hardest."

He looks at a middle-aged woman drag her fingers over the keys in frustration trying to press them all. For something. Anything at all to happen. "Look", he says, "the user isn't misbehaving. Her attitude is mirroring the machine."

He walks over and makes eye contact with her as his body exudes empathy, "our software is the one that is failing you." He believes that this in turn gives the user permission to fail themselves.

He takes a survey at all the personal electronics throughout the store. A group of children run outside on the tile of the indoor mall. Orion fixates off in the distance, "we work collectively to build things, but also our own individual selves, each with our own dignity and needs."

He drags his hand along the side of a Tandy CoCo 2, a cheap $160 home computer and looks at me,
"I hear the words *personal computer* and I think about machines that respect each of us as unrepeatable creations. With these machines, do we commodify the human or accommodate the person?"

He looks up at someone who is trying to use the demo and turned the mouse upside down to try to use it as a trackball and says "Whether we do or not ... this all depends on the choices we make, every day. I need to make the right ones."

I watch him softly step away and treat both the human and computer with a level of humility that allow me to lose the detail of the words they say and the shapes their body occupy. The relationship, for a moment, is not an abstract invisible thing. It is tactile. The people and the machine are splashes of color and vectors of compassion connect them like edges on a graph. 

All this and more for just the blink of a moment before it evaporates. I have never been there again. 

It was the closest I ever came to enlightenment. I experienced the world not how it is, but how it ought to be. And I believe, for that second, I also could see the why and the how to get there. 

But every moment of life happens only once. These flashes of inspiration fade like mist whenever daylight kisses it. It becomes a copy of a copy of a copy... a simulacrum made illegible by nostalgia and time.

We conclude around 4:00 PM having learning more about life than computers. Or, maybe, they aren't that different. We load everything into the Eagle and drive back to the office.

"So what did you think?" I ask Orion. "It's broken." he shrugs.

"What part?" I ask. 

"The premise" he responds. "It's not any particular piece. It's the promise we're communicating to the user. We say one thing, the interface says another, and it behaves in yet another. It's within these mixed messages that the opportunity is lost. Everything must be spoken with a single voice."

Alright, fine. Kinda abstract but I keep going, "and what does that voice say?"

"I dunno." Orion responds. Maybe, "Hey, look, I care about you. Your stress, anxiety, and suffering, it means something to me. I'm here for you. To support you."

What a crazy idea. This is business software. "You mean like a therapist?" I reply.

"No, not exactly. Generous undo, multiple ways to achieve something, search and suggest instead of pecking through hierarchies. People use software to get things done. We need to help them get there and not present intellectual exercises."